# Problem Domains

## Introduction

Conducting research in data science means that you need to pick a problem domain
about which you are interested in learning through a data-driven process. For
instance, are you interested in sneakers or video games or competition in
athletic sport? If you have interest in one of these areas then you have, at
least preliminarily, picked your problem domain! After selecting a broad problem
domain and then taking the next step of identifying a [knowledge
gap](/research-skills/knowledge-gaps/), it is important to focus your project so
that it is feasible. Since your topic may be too broad, you could focus it on,
for example, the price of sneakers, or the way in which video games influence
mental health, or how certain team strategies influence the likelihood of
winning an athletic sporting event.

In addition to thinking about areas of your own interest, it is a good idea to
review existing online data science blogs that have already focused on one or
more problem domains. As you study some of the posts on the following web sites
you will notice that they pick a interesting, yet restricted, problem domain so
as to ensure that it is feasible to complete the data analysis. Here are some
examples for you to consider:

- [I Quant NY by Ben Wellington](https://iquantny.tumblr.com/): Using data
  science to analyze open data and tell stories about life in New York City

- [Data Analysis Blog by Julia Silge](https://juliasilge.com/): Using the R language
  for statistical computation to analyze varied data sets

- [Variance Explained by David Robinson](http://varianceexplained.org/): Using
  the R language for statistical computation to analyze varied data sets

## Running Example

All of the examples of data science research on this web site focus on the
domain of software engineering. Specifically, this example project focuses on
the GitHub repositories that are commonly used in experiments that assess the
efficiency and effectiveness of new software engineering techniques created by
researchers. For instance, a software engineering researcher might develop a new
testing technique that prioritizes the test suite for a project implemented in
the Python programming language, thereby ensuring that the tests most likely to
find defects are run earlier in the testing process.

After developing this new test suite prioritization technique, a researcher will
want to know how well it works for the test suites that developers created for
real-world Python programs. One way to experimentally assess the effectiveness
of the new approach is to run it on the test suites of open-source projects
found on GitHub. The high-level goal for this project is to characterize these
GitHub repositories and determine how suitable they would be for assessing a new
software engineering technique.
