# Introduction

![Technical Skills](/img/illustrate/introduction-technical-skills.svg#only-light){width="80%"}
![Technical Skills](/img/illustrate/introduction-technical-skills-inverted.svg#only-dark){width="80%"}

[Josh Wills](https://twitter.com/josh_wills) famously suggested "a data
scientist is someone who is better at statistics than any software engineer and
better at software engineering than any statistician." This quotation means
that, to become a data science researcher you need to become comfortable both
software engineering tools and statistical concepts. For instance, you will
need to master of a wide variety of technical skills that include using a text
editor and a terminal window and testing and debugging a Python program or a
using an interactive Jupyter notebook. Once you understand those basic skills
you will need to learn how to understand statistical concepts and then apply
them in a Python program.

Recognizing that you will need to be good at both software engineering and
statistics can be overwhelming and ultimately lead you to wonder how you can
feasibly excel in both areas. Along with focusing on the mastery of individual
tasks that are part of a bigger operation, [Greg Wilson](https://third-bit.com/)
suggests in [*Teaching Tech Together*](https://teachtogether.tech/en/index.html)
that "what actually works is doing similar but subtly different things, paying
attention to what works and what doesn't, and then changing behavior in response
to that feedback to get cumulatively better."

To master the technical skills introduced on this site you need to participate
in deliberate practice that "requires both a clear performance goal and
immediate informative feedback".[^1] In his post entitled [Getting
Good](https://bphogan.com/2021/04/28/getting-good/), author [Brian
Hogan](https://bphogan.com/) explained deliberate practice similarly when he
wrote that if you have a skill you want to get better at you must "practice
every day", "get feedback", and "do more than you watch and read". Building on
the bullet points from [Teaching Tech
Together](https://teachtogether.tech/en/index.html), these are the steps you
should take when using deliberate practice to proactively learn new technical
skills:

- **Act on feedback from others**: While attempting to install, configure, and
  use a program on your laptop (e.g., [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
  or [Python](https://www.python.org/)), ask a more established programmer who
  has already successfully accomplished this task what they think of your setup
  and the approach that you took to create it. Next, listen carefully to their
  feedback and then attempt to improve your setup as needed, asking for
  clarification as appropriate.

- **Give feedback on the work of others**: As you are installing, configuring,
  and learning how to use a software tool needed for proactive programming,
  offer constructive feedback to a peer who recently completed a similar step.
  Once you have shared your suggestions, ask both your peer and a more
  established programmer to evaluate the way in which you delivered the feedback
  and the quality of the feedback itself.

- **Give feedback to yourself**: After you have regularly practiced a technical
  skill, such as implementing and testing Python programs, take time to observe
  your use of this skill and develop a critique of your own approach. After
  identifying areas for improvement, make a list of SMART goals that will enable
  you to more effectively put a specific technical skill into practice, follow
  your plan, and work to continually to improve.[^2]

Keeping these ideas in mind, let's dive into the first technical skill!

--8<-- "includes/abbreviations.md"

[^1]: See Merriam-Webster for the definition of [Teaching Tech
  Together](https://teachtogether.tech/en/index.html) for more details about how
  to effectively learn technical skills. What practical steps can you take to
  best ensure that you can master the technical skills of a proactive programmer?

[^2]: See the article called [How to write SMART
  goals](https://www.atlassian.com/blog/productivity/how-to-write-smart-goals)
  for an overview of how to create SMART goals that are specific, measurable,
    achievable, relevant, and time-bound. In your view, what are the benefits of
    ensuring that your goals fit into the SMART paradigm?
